Transport Management System




Software Requirements:

Visual Studio 2022
Xampp server




Installing Visual Studio


To download Visual Studio, follow these steps:

1. Visit the official Visual Studio website: 
Go to the Visual Studio website at https://visualstudio.microsoft.com.

2. Choose the edition: Visual Studio offers different editions, including the Community, Professional, and Enterprise editions. 
Evaluate your needs and select the edition that suits you best. The Community edition is free and suitable for individual developers 
or small teams working on open-source or non-commercial projects.

3. Select the download option: Once you've chosen the edition, click on the "Download" button for that edition.

4. Customize your installation (optional): Visual Studio provides customization options during installation. 
You can select the components and workloads that you want to install. This allows you to include or exclude specific tools,
 programming languages, frameworks, and extensions based on your requirements. If you're unsure, you can go with the default 
installation options.

5. Run the installer: After customizing (or choosing the default options), run the downloaded installer.

6. Accept the license terms: Read and accept the license terms to proceed with the installation.

7. Wait for the installation to complete: The installer will download the necessary files and install Visual Studio on your system. 
The installation time may vary depending on your internet connection and the components you selected.

8. Launch Visual Studio: Once the installation is complete, you can launch Visual Studio from the start menu or desktop shortcut.

9. Sign in (optional): You will be prompted to sign in with your Microsoft account. Signing in allows you to access additional features
 and services provided by Visual Studio, but it's optional.

10. Start coding: With Visual Studio installed and launched, you're ready to start coding in your preferred programming language.


Installing Angular JS:

To install AngularJS, you can follow these steps:

1. Download AngularJS: Visit the official AngularJS website at https://angularjs.org and click on the "Download" button. 
You will be provided with options to download the latest stable version of AngularJS.

2. Choose the distribution: AngularJS offers two distribution options: the uncompressed version for development 
and the minified version for production. Choose the version that suits your needs. For development purposes, it's 
recommended to download the uncompressed version.

3. Include AngularJS in your project: Once you have downloaded the AngularJS file, you need to include it in your project. 
You can either copy the AngularJS file to your project directory or use a Content Delivery Network (CDN) link in your HTML file.

   a. If you downloaded the AngularJS file, you can include it in your HTML file using a script tag. 


   b. If you prefer using a CDN, you can include the following script tag in your HTML file:
   
   <script src="https://ajax.googleapis.com/ajax/libs/angularjs/1.8.2/angular.min.js"></script>


4. Add the "ng-app" directive: In your HTML file, add the "ng-app" directive to specify the root of your AngularJS application. 



5. Start using AngularJS: You are now ready to use AngularJS in your project. You can start writing AngularJS code and utilize its features and directives to build dynamic web applications.

   For example, you can create AngularJS controllers, directives, and templates to implement functionality and bind data to your HTML elements.

Remember that AngularJS is a JavaScript framework, so you need to have a basic understanding of HTML, CSS, and JavaScript to effectively use AngularJS in your projects.


Installing Xampp

To install XAMPP (cross-platform Apache, MySQL, PHP, and Perl), follow these steps:

1. Visit the Apache Friends website: Go to the official Apache Friends website at https://www.apachefriends.org.

2. Download XAMPP: On the website's homepage, you will find the XAMPP download section. Select the version of XAMPP that is 
compatible with your operating system (Windows, macOS, or Linux).

3. Start the download: Click on the download link for the appropriate version of XAMPP. The download may take some time depending 
on your internet speed.

4. Run the installer: Once the download is complete, run the installer file that you downloaded.

5. Choose components: During the installation process, you will be prompted to select the components you want to install. The core 
components usually include Apache, MySQL, PHP, and phpMyAdmin. You can also select additional components or language bindings based on your 
requirements.

6. Select installation directory: Choose the directory where you want to install XAMPP. The default directory is usually fine, but you can 
choose a different location if needed.

7. Complete the installation: Proceed with the installation process by following the on-screen instructions. You may be asked to provide 
certain configuration settings, such as the MySQL root password. Make sure to remember these settings as you will need them later.

8. Start XAMPP: Once the installation is complete, launch XAMPP. On Windows, you can start XAMPP by running the 
"XAMPP Control Panel" application. On macOS and Linux, you can start it from the terminal using the command `sudo /opt/lampp/lampp start`.

9. Test the installation: Open a web browser and navigate to http://localhost/. If XAMPP is running correctly, 
you should see the XAMPP welcome page.

10. Start using XAMPP: XAMPP is now installed and ready to use. You can place your web files in the "htdocs" folder (usually 
located in the XAMPP installation directory) and access them through the web browser using the localhost address.





Steps to Run Transport Management System on Your Computer:

To run the provided project on Visual Studio using XAMPP, follow these steps:


Note: Make sure that XAMPP's Apache and MySQL services are running while accessing the project. 
Also, check the XAMPP control panel for any errors or port conflicts.


1. Start XAMPP:
   - Launch XAMPP from the installed location.
   - Start the Apache and MySQL services by clicking the "Start" buttons next to them.

2. Set up the project files:
   - Navigate in the Xamp folder in the `htdocs` folder of your XAMPP installation. 
     For example, `C:\xampp\htdocs`.
   - Place project file `driver` inside this directory.

3. Database Configuration:
   - Open your web browser and navigate to `http://localhost/phpmyadmin`.
   - Import database named `bus_pass-mgt.sql`.

4. Access the project:
   - Open Visual Studio and select "Open a Project/Solution."
   - Navigate to the project directory and open the `bus_pass-mgt.sln` file.
   - Run the project by clicking on IIS Express button.
   - The project should open in Visual Studio's web browser or an external browser.
   

5. Test the project:
   - You will see the Home page of the Transport Management Website.
   - Login using Credentials given below.
   - You should see the login screen in the browser.
   - Enter a valid bus address and driver mobile number to log in.

For Admin Login:
   - Login using the given credentials.
   - Admin can view/manage the students.
   - Add/ Delete Notices.
   - Add/ Manage Bus.

For Driver Login:
   - Login using the given Credentials.
   - Driver has start/ stop the tracking option.


Once logged in, you can start/stop tracking by clicking the corresponding buttons.




Admin Credentials:
email: admin@gmail.com
password: aa
Student Credentials: 
email: stud@gmail.com
password: aa
Driver Credentails:
Bus Number: UP70AA1111
Driver Mobile: 9854444444
Note : By logging in into admin you can see the details of other buses and students and can login the using that details.